# Replication package for Blanchard, O.J., & Quah, D. (AER, 1989) in Julia

**Authors of the replication** : Andrea Giannino (andrea.giannino@carloalberto.org) and Davide Zagame (davide.zagame@carloalberto.org).

**Course:** Computational Economics, Spring 2025 - Master in Economics, Collegio Carlo Alberto

## Overview of the package

We replicate the main findings of [Blanchard, Olivier Jean, and Quah, Danny. "The Dynamic Effects of Aggregate Demand and
Supply Disturbances." The American Economic Review 79, no.4 (1989): 655-673](https://uh.edu/~bsorense/BlanchardQuah1989.pdf) using Julia.

In particular, we were able to estimate the bivariate VARs and the corresponding impulse response functions (IRFs) showing the dynamic effects of supply (Figure 1 in the Paper) and demand shocks (Fig.2) on unemployment and output. 
We also obtained the IRFs providing the same information, but with one standard deviation bands around the point estimates (Fig.3-6).

The resulting figures can be found in the output/figures subfolder.

The data and code employed in this seminal paper wasn't made available by its original authors. Hence, we used, as a starting point, the [replication package](https://github.com/ambropo/VAR-Toolbox/tree/main/v3dot0/Replic/BQ1989) that Ambrogio Cesa-Bianchi developed in Matlab. We used data for the US quarterly GDP and unemployment growth rates between Q2 1948 and Q4 1987, included in Cesa-Bianchi's replication package.


## Folder organisation

The repository is organised as follows:

```
├── README.md          <- Read-me file
│
├── data               <- Folder containing the data employed by B&Q (quarterly GDP and unemployment growth rates in the US - Q21948 to Q41987)
│   
├── reference         <- Includes the original B&Q paper and the Matlab replication code by Ambrogio Cesa-Bianchi
|
├── output             <- Output generated by the replication package.
│    ├── figures       <- Contains the figures in pdf format.
│    └── tables        <- Contains the tables in pdf format.
│
├── test               <- Contains the unit test files, needed to verify the functionality of the functions developed for the package.
│
└── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
     ├── files_path.jl          <- Sets short names for certain folders in the directory.
     ├── IRFs.jl                <- Estimates the bivariate VAR and plots the IRFs. 
     └── BQ_1989_Replication.jl <- the primary script orchestrating the execution of all functions.
```

## Reproducing the results
The first step is to download the package BQ_1989_Replication. 
For that, open the command terminal (making sure Julia is already added to PATH) :

```
> git clone https://github.com/dzagame/BQ_1989_Replication.jl.git
> cd BQ_1989_Replication.jl
> julia # to turn on the Julia REPL
```
Then, when in the Julia REPL, simply run:
```
julia > ]
(@v1.11) pkg> activate .

julia> using BQ_1989_Replication

julia> BQ_1989_Replication.run() #To run the replication and obtain the IRFs
julia> BQ_1989_Replication.runtests() #To run the unit tests
```

## Computational Requirements

We indicate here the computational resources employed for replication. Expected run time may vary depending on your own machine.

*OS*: Windows 11

*CPU*: Intel i5 1145G7 - 2.6Ghz 

*RAM* : 16 GB

*GPU*: 128 MB

*Software version* : Julia 1.11.3 (2025-01-21)

## Expected run time

Given the above-mentioned specifications, the runtime of BQ_1989_Replication.run() is of about 3 minutes.

### Notes regarding replicated output

The package replicates the following output from the paper:
-**Figures 1-2**: IRFs showing the dynamic effects of supply (Figure 1 in the Paper) and demand shocks (Fig.2) on unemployment and output. The VAR itself has p = 8 with output growth and unemployment, and the identifying assumption is the "zero long-run restrictions": demand-side shocks have no long-run effect on the level of output, while supply shocks do.  
-**Figures 3-4-5-6**: IRFs similar to Fig.1-2, but with one standard deviation bands around the point estimates.

### Notes about output accuracy

We've been able to accurately reproduce Figures 1 and 2, the only ones which were reproduced by Cesa-Bianchi in his Matlab script.
As for figures 3-4-5-6, our results don't match those provided in the paper. Hence, there are likely some issues to be solved in VARirband and/or VARirplot.

### Potential extensions

An obvious extension that could be easily implemented that of also replicating the remaining figures (Fig. 7-8-9-10) and tables (Tab. 1-2-2A-2B-2C), the code for which wasn't provided in Cesa-Bianchi's replication package, which was only concerned with the key IRFs.

